.TH RUN-GCC 1 "2025-04-05" "run-gcc 1.0" "run-gcc Manual"
.SH NAME
run-gcc \- A versatile script to compile and run C/C++ programs

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B run-gcc
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fISOURCE_FILE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B run-gcc
is a command-line utility designed to simplify the process of compiling and running C and C++ programs. It automatically detects the file type based on the extension and uses the appropriate compiler (\fBgcc\fR for C and \fBg++\fR for C++).

The script also provides additional features such as input/output handling, output comparison, and displaying differences between actual and expected outputs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Display the help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, --version
Display the version of the script and exit.
.TP
.B \-i, --input \fIFILE\fR
Specify an input file to provide input to the program.
.TP
.B \-e, --expected \fIFILE\fR
Specify an expected output file to compare the program's output.
.TP
.B \-d, --diff
Show the difference between the program's output and the expected output.

.SH USAGE
To compile and run a C or C++ program, provide the source file as an argument:
.TP
.B run-gcc hello.c
Compiles and runs the C program \fIhello.c\fR.
.TP
.B run-gcc hello.cpp
Compiles and runs the C++ program \fIhello.cpp\fR.

To provide input and compare output:
.TP
.B run-gcc -i input.txt -e expected.txt hello.c
Runs the program \fIhello.c\fR with input from \fIinput.txt\fR and compares the output with \fIexpected.txt\fR.

To display differences between actual and expected outputs:
.TP
.B run-gcc -i input.txt -e expected.txt -d hello.cpp
Runs the program \fIhello.cpp\fR with input from \fIinput.txt\fR, compares the output with \fIexpected.txt\fR, and shows the differences.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B run-gcc main.c
Compiles and executes the C program \fImain.c\fR.
.TP
.B run-gcc -h
Displays the help message.
.TP
.B run-gcc -v
Displays the version of the script.
.TP
.B run-gcc -i input.txt -e expected.txt -d program.cpp
Runs \fIprogram.cpp\fR with input from \fIinput.txt\fR, compares the output with \fIexpected.txt\fR, and shows differences if any.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.B run-gcc
exits with the following codes:
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (e.g., unsupported file type, missing file, or compilation failure).

.SH AUTHOR
Md. Dipu <srdipu@hotmail.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025 Md. Dipu.  
This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the MIT License.